# Monster Stats on the Fifth Edition of Dungeons and Dragons

Dungeons and Dragons is a game of numbers. Success and failure is determined by the (mostly) random roll of the dice, and the modifiers that are added or subtracted from said rolls. Due to the quantifiable nature of these stats, a deeper dive into the primary stats and modifiers can prove incredibly useful for players looking to gain the upper hand when creating new characters for players, or monsters for dungeon masters. Data was gathered from various sources, though primarily from https://5e.tools/bestiary.html. Cleaning the data primarily concerned calculating ability modifiers for each column by taking the six ability scores (Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intellect, Wisdom, and Charisma), subtracting that number by 10, and then dividing by two, always rounding down. This number is the primary number that is used when modifying dice rolls. My primary question I wanted to answer is "What ability score is the safest to roll against for a save" A save occurs when a magic user casts a spell that makes the enemy do a saving throw. The attacker rolls and adds their modifiers to the attack. If the attack against the defenders ability score is higher (ties go to the defender), the attack hits. Knowing which of the six ability scores is statistically the weakest is incredibly beneficial, since it increases you chance hit.

Plot showing variation and linear regression models for the various stats in fifth edition Dungeons and Dragons.
[5e EDA](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/86172092/142287770-53c384ab-6db2-4a78-b644-8e2e1d32707b.png)
